# Types

This library contains 2 discriminate union types, to suit a wide variety of user needs.

## 1. `Result` / `Result<T>`

This type works by having a `bool IsOk` property, a `string Message` and if needed a `T? Value` property. This allows the type to remain the same regardless of error or success, thus it is performs way better than lambda-required-handling types, but is more suited when the consumer knows exactly how it works.

For example, when the `Result<T>` is a failure, `T? Value` will be `null` this means, that if someone skips the check or tries to access the value when the `Result<T>` is a failure, they will get an exception.

* Both types are readonly structs but will throw an `InvalidOperation` exception if they are created using a default constructor. The only valid way to create them is using the static factory methods inside `Result`.
* Both `Result` and `Result<T>` also have the methods `.AsTask()` and `.AsValueTask()` that wrap a `Task` or `ValueTask` around them to make them easier to use in non-async `Task` or `ValueTask` methods.
* `Result` has an extension method called `.WithValue(T Value`, which will return a `Result<T>` with the same `Message` and `IsOk` values. However, it is not recommended to use as the performance is worse than the factory methods, and it allows adding a non-`null` `Value` to a failed `Result` which messes with the logic flow.

## 2. `Either<T0, T1>`

This type is your usual lambda-required-handling discriminated union type, similar to `OneOf`. However it only has an option for 2 types.

This type has implicit operators that cast any of `T0` or `T1` to the type, and requires the consumer to either use delegates to get access to each, or to force casting it one type or the other. As with `OneOf` this makes it a little bit safer to use but vastly impacts performance, especially if you need to take the output value of one of them and continue processing it outside the lambda, or if you want to propagate a certain result forward in the code flow.
