# AesProvider

`AesProvider` is a class that implements `IDisposable` and allows very easy usage of AES128 encryption and decryption.

## Static Methods

```csharp
string GeneratePassword(string password, int iterations = 991);
```

This generates a hashed password from a real password. This is useful for storing and verifying account credentials.

```csharp
bool IsPasswordValid(string password, string hashedPassword);
```

This will verify a hashed password against a real password.

## Instance Methods

Constructor:

```csharp
public AesProvider(string strKey);
```

Unlike the base classes of the language, this takes a key in the format of a `string`, and does all the magic of handling length, padding and such by itself, so that you only need the key to encrypt or decrypt.

Remember that this class implements `IDisposable`, make sure to dispose of it properly or use the `using` keyword or block.

Methods:

```csharp
// Encryption
string Encrypt(ReadOnlySpan<char> unencrypted);
string EncryptUrl(string url);
byte[] EncryptBytes(ReadOnlySpan<byte> unencrypted);
int EncryptBytes(ReadOnlySpan<byte> unencrypted, Span<byte> destination);
// Decryption
string Decrypt(string encrypted);
string DecryptUrl(string encryptedUrl);
byte[] DecryptBytes(ReadOnlySpan<byte> encrypted, bool throwOnError = false);
int DecryptBytes(ReadOnlySpan<byte> encrypted, Span<byte> destination, bool throwOnError = false);
```

These methods straight up encrypt or decrypt the `string` or `byte[]` input.

```csharp
string EncryptUrl(string url);
string DecryptUrl(string encryptedUrl);
```

These methods handle cases where the encrypted is formatted in `base64` so it can be used in urls and file-names and so on...

These methods are used for handling all the base needs of encryption and decryption.

For more advanced encryption or decryption you can use these:

```csharp
ICryptoTransform CreateEncryptor();
ICryptoTransform CreateDecryptor();
```

These will create an `ICryptoTransform` using the key and everything from the `AesProvider` instance. You can use it to encrypt and decrypt using streams and many more advanced options.

`ICryptoTransform` is also implementing `IDisposable` make sure to handle it appropriately.
