Utils is a static class that provides advanced options that wouldn't be straight forward as extensions, it has static subclasses that are classified by their area of operation.

# `Utils.DateAndTime`

```csharp
public static ValueTask<DateTime> GetCurrentTimeAsync()
```
This function returns a `ValueTask` with the current time, it is useful in scenarios where you need to perform an async operation and get the `timestamp` for logging and etc... This way you can set the function directly to a variable and await once after the other operation is done. This way you can save the actual time that it takes to get `DateTime.Now` which can 200ns or more.

```csharp
public static ValueTask<long> GetCurrentTimeInBinaryAsync()
```
This function works the same way but extracts the `DateTime.Now.ToBinary()` as the binary calculation can also take some time.

# `Utils.Env`

```csharp
public static bool IsRunningOnWindows()
public static bool IsRunningAsAdmin()
public static string GetBaseDirectory()
public static bool IsInternetAvailable
```
These function help checking certain metrics to enforce valid operations or certain operations on certain platforms. For example `IsRunningAsAdmin()` might be important if you want to automate a cli command, `GetBaseDirectory()` returns the base directory of where the program is located, `IsInternetAvailable` might be important to check before downloads and etc...

* `GetBaseDirectory()` Should not be used with mobile platforms such as .NET MAUI as they have special wrappers for this.

# `Utils.Mathematics`

```csharp
public static double RollingAverage(double oldAverage, double newNumber, int sampleCount)
```
This function calculates a rolling average, as in an average that is calculated using the previous average, new value and total amount of values. This can be used to store an average (perhaps for metrics and such), much more efficiently than storing all the values and calculating it every time.

```csharp
public static double Factorial(double n)
public static double FibonacciApproximation(int n)
```
These ones are quite straight forward.

