# Collections

Sharpify has multiple custom collections such as:

## SortedList{T}

`SortedList<T>` is a re-implementation of `List<T>` with custom crud operations:

* Add -> O(log n)
* Remove -> O(log n)
* Get by sorted index O(1) - i.e min is [0] and max is [length - 1], also second max is [length - 2]
* Space is still O(n)
* Option to disallow duplicates

The `SortedList<T>` also has convenience features, such as `AsSpan`, `Clear` methods, exposure of the `List<T>.Enumerator` which is an efficient struct, and also an implicit operator which can return the inner list in places which require `List<T>` (however be careful as the receiver may use the inner list and it may no longer maintain the features above)

## PersistentDictionary

`PersistentDictionary` is a thread-safe `Dictionary<string, string` that is optimized for concurrency. The abstract class provides most of the important implementation to allow all the features, and should be used as the type for the object when you want to use a `PersistentDictionary`.

`PersistentDictionary` has many convenience methods such as automatic conversions that allow getting any value that implements `IParsable` and adding any value that implements `IConvertible` which at the vary least are most of the primitive types in .NET

The main differences between the api of this and a regular dictionary is that it is best to use the async overloads

```csharp
// Upsert
public ValueTask UpsertAsync<T>(string key, T value) where T : struct, IConvertible
public virtual async ValueTask UpsertAsync(string key, string value)
// Retrieval
public async ValueTask<T> GetOrCreateAsync<T>(string key, T @default) where T : struct, IParsable<T>
public virtual async ValueTask<string> GetOrCreateAsync(string key, string @default)
```

you can also get values with a synchronous operation if you require by using `PersistentDictionary[key]`

but upsert is not available asynchronously due to the synchronization mechanisms that are used to optimize the concurrency

To configure the type for usage you can implement the class and it will show you the specific things required to make everything work. In addition, there are 2 built-in implementations:

* `LocalPersistentDictionary` is an implementation that serializes and restores the dictionary from a local path
* `LazyLocalPersistentDictionary` is an implementation that also serializes and restores the dictionary from a local path, doesn't maintain an in-memory version, allowing it to be garbage collected if it was even created, this is for very memory constrained scenarios. Reading from it, doesn't even create a dictionary.

## StringBuffer

`StringBuffer` is a unique ref struct that efficiently builds a string for `readonlyspan<char>`s, `char`s and any other `ISpanFormattable` implemented types. But it requires knowing the maximum length of the string. However, it can be longer than what would be required, so you can overestimate usually and still get all the benefits.

`StringBuffer` rents a buffer from the array pool, and when appending elements, it automatically adjusts internal indexes to so you don't have to worry about anything. It also has a `Dispose` method that returns the buffer to the array pool so you should use with a `using` statement. While it won't cause severe issues to forgo this, The array pool might require to re-allocate the lost buffers, potentially negating the advantages of using the `StringBuffer` in the first place.

`StringBuffer`s constructor has an optional parameter `ClearBuffer` which can be toggled to first clear the rented buffer, this has a performance cost, and most of time it is not needed as there will not be any gaps in the buffer because of the way indexes are managed.

### Appending

```csharp
public void Append(char c);
public void Append(ReadOnlySpan<char> str);
public void Append<T>(T value, ReadOnlySpan<char> format = default, IFormatProvider? provider = null) where T : ISpanFormattable {}
```

### Finalization (Get string)

```csharp
Allocate(bool trimIfShorter = true, bool trimEndWhiteSpace = false)
// trimIfShorter -> will trim the buffer to the end of the latest appended segment
// trimEndWhiteSpaces -> will trim white spaces at the end
ToString() // Will call Allocate(true, false)
implicit string operator // Will also call Allocate(true, false)
[Range] // Will allocate by range
```

### Example

```csharp
public string GetHello() {
  using var buffer = new StringBuffer(50); // The number is ballpark but overestimated
  buffer.Append("Hello");
  buffer.Append(' ');
  buffer.Append("Everyone");
  buffer.Append('!');
  return buffer;
  // We sample text is separated for api showcase.
}
// The implicit operator will kick in and Allocate(true, false)
// The returned result will be "Hello Everyone!"
```

In the functionality it is very similar in some use cases to a `StringBuilder` however, it doesn't allocate any memory at all,
being a ref struct it is fully stack allocated, and the internal buffer is rented from the array pool.

* `StringBuffer` since the introduction is utilized almost everywhere in Sharpify, and the gains in maintainability with no degradation to performance are very noticeable.