# Special Types

## MonitoredSerializableObject{T}

`MonitoredSerializableObject{T}` is a wrapper around a reference or value type, that will serialize the inner value to a file, monitor the file to synchronize external changes, and notify of all changes (internal or external) via an `OnChanged` event.

The simplest use-case of this is for example you create a `struct` for your app settings, which then enables each setting to be type safe and specific. Then when you change it from code or the user from the file, everything will be synchronized by this abstraction.

### Initialization

```csharp
new MonitoredSerializableObject(string path, T defaultValue);
new MonitoredSerializableObject(string path); // uses the other constructor with the default{T}
```

The constructor first validates the path, if the directory doesn't exist or filename is empty, it will throw a `IOException`, if the file doesn't exist, or the contents of the file are empty, it will serialize the default value to the file, otherwise it will deserialize from the file or set to the default if it fails. It will also start monitoring the file.

### Modification

```csharp
public void Modify(Func<T, T> modifier)
```

Modification is done using a function, this is to both enable an experience similar to `options` and to make it work with `struct`s because they are value types.

```csharp
Modify(person => {
  person.Name = "New";
  return person;
}); // Simple change that will work with reference types or value types
// If person was a record, it is even easier
Modify(person => person with { Name = "New" });
```

### Subscribing And Notifications

The event that notifies for changes is `OnChanged`, and you need to subscribe to it with a signature of `void Function(object sender, MonitorObjectEventArgs e)`, this is a special event args implementation that will contain the new value after the change. an anonymous function with the same parameters is also accepted.

For example:

```csharp
using var monitoredObj = new MonitoredSerializableObject(path, new Person { Name = "Dave" });
monitoredObj.OnChanged += OnValueChanged

private void OnValueChanged(object sender, MonitorObjectEventArgs e) {
  Console.WriteLine($"The new name is {e.Value.Name}");
}
```

This basically concludes the general usage.

### Notes

* In order to avoid file writing exceptions, `Modify` is synchronized using a lock, to only be performed by a single thread at a time.
* There is also an internal mechanism that should prevent deserialization after internal modification in order to reduce io operations and redundant value updates.
